So here we're going to come and
the regular expression for
web logs is just Google it and you'll find the regular expression.
If you hit writing regular expressions,
and parsing this in Python is very easy.
So here's the regular expression and here's the function that does this.
This is pure Python that you can test,
and we're going to declare this as UDF.
You might be familiar with this syntax or you might be
familiar with the other syntax with register UDF,
which are both equivalent,
and once we have this registered,
we go and use this here,
to do the transformation with column and we get another DF which is the DF parsed.
By design here, we made this such it looks like a dictionary.
So we can actually access the fields,
and if you look here,
you print the schema and that's a string.
That's not the dictionary but we return the dictionary.
Yes. But we made the mistake actually in this function.
I don't know if you can spot it.
If you studied well,
your UDFs you will know that,
you have to be very careful with the return types.
You have to say, what is the return type.
So we will do a third attempts while the first was the splitting,
the second was the bad UDF,
and the third is the proper UDF.
We'll go and say, this UDF is going to return a map type,
and depending on how much you studied Spark,
you would know that Spark has abnormal string columns,
integer columns, double, and so forth.
But you have also three complex type of jars structs, maps and arrays.
So you can have a column itself as a map type which is
an extremely powerful feature of Spark,
and you have to say it's a map type of what to what.
So this is going to be a map type from string
to string because these will be the most generic for us,
and we repeat this and we read it clear.
I will call it this parse UDF better and we say this is the DF parsed,
and we look at it and at while.
The results seem okay,
actually it looked okay last time.
But also, when I print the schema here,
I will see that there is a key and a value.
So actually the type of parsed column is map.
We're doing actually grid.
It seems that I made a mistake,
and I am printing this two times anyhow.
Here's printing it one time and here's the scheme.
Now I can go and say DF will select parsed,
and I'm going to get all the field here, beautiful.
But I guess we need more.
We need to convert these into columns.